# AI-UI

AI-UI ("Async Iterator User Interface") is a tiny, genuinely functional, UI framework for building dynamic HTML pages

### It has 4 main features:

* A simple mechanism for defining and using standard DOM elements, encouraging both composition _and_ inheritance
* A super-cool syntax ([`when`](https://github.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/blob/main/guide/when.md)) for inter-component communication using standard DOM events, avoiding the spaghetti of event listeners and state management
* Dynamic DOM attributes and contents via _standard_ JS async constructs - set your styles & content with Promises and async iterables.
* A set of extensions to the standard browser/JS async iterables & generators, like map, filter, multi...

### Design goals for AI-UI are:

* Specify dynamic content in a _static_, declaritive DOM layout
* Full use and compatability with all standard DOM elements, events and JS async constructs like Promises, generators & iterators - no special compilation steps, additional syntax, virtual DOM or complex API to learn. Freely mix and match with _any_ existing UI toolkit which renders HTML or generates DOM nodes.
* Tiny footprint (8Kb minified + gzipped), zero dependencies
* Purely client-side, but of course being bullt with standard JS & DOM Elements, can be generated by your favourite server-side dev tools.
* First-class support for Typescript (it is written in Typescript), prompting you with a rich set interfaces for your newly defined tags, and it supports `tsx` if you're a fan.

Think of it as a "spreadsheet" in your browser - you define the elements, styles and contents by referencing other elements and data sources in-situ, and you can encapsulate your dynamic tags for instant re-use.

_Spreadsheet? How does that work?_

Consider the static DOM layout, using a functional JS snippet:
```javascript
  function now() {
    return new Date().toString();
  }

  div(
    "The time is:", now()
  )
```
What if the expression for the time could be **truly dynamic**, without any external rendering, diffing or "reaction"? If you could just enter the expression once, and the framework did the DOM updates, event handling and everything else?

That's what AI-UI does. Child elements and attributes can be living, changing expressions through the use of JavaScripts async iterators:
```javascript
  const sleep = (t) => new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, t));

  async function *now() {
    while (true) {
      yield new Date().toString();
      await sleep(1000);
    }
  }

  div(
    "The time is:", now()
  )
```
That's it! A working clock, just by changing the second child in the `<div>` to an async iterator! [See for yourself](https://raw.githack.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/main/guide/examples/readme.html)

AI-UI comes with a core set of functions & methods to turn DOM events into async iterators (via [`when`](https://github.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/blob/main/guide/when.md)), so your content can be derived from other elements, and a toolkit for mapping, filtering and processing async [iterators](https://github.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/blob/main/guide/iterators.md) in a natural way so your data flows throughout your system, filtered down to do the most minimal, performant DOM updates possible.

## Use in a browser

Distibution files are included in the package as ESM (.mjs) and HTML script tags. Debug versions with inline sourcemaps and minified versions are placed in the /dist directory. The /esm direction contains unbundled ESM files with inline sourcemaps and TypeScript .d.ts definitions.

### ES6 import
```
  import * as AIUI from 'https://www.unpkg.com/@matatbread/ai-ui/dist/ai-ui.mjs'; // or .min.mjs
  // You can, of course, just import the members you need...
  import { tag } from 'https://www.unpkg.com/@matatbread/ai-ui/dist/ai-ui.mjs'; // or .min.mjs
```

### HTML `<script>` tag
```
  <script src="https://www.unpkg.com/@matatbread/ai-ui/dist/ai-ui.js"></script>
  <!-- defines global AIUI -->
  <script>
    const { tag } = AIUI;
    ...
  </script>
```

#### CommonJS (for bundling or other environments)
> Since there are no browsers that support async iterators but not ECMAScript modules, the .cjs bundles have been removed
> as of au-ui@0.12.0. You should either import the module which all modern bundlers will correctly reference. If you really
> want CommonJS format for some reason, the legacy `npm run build-dev-cjs` and  `npm run build-min-cjs` will create them.

## Get Started

Get started with simple, easy to maintain web pages that work seamlessly with user-input, remote data sources and other dynamic sources of data and interaction without the complexity of a bespoke build or execution framework.

* Jump straight to the tutorial with [your first web page](https://github.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/blob/main/guide/your-first-web-page.md)
* See all the docs in the [index](https://github.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/blob/main/guide/index.md)

Interested in contributing? Please check out the [developers](https://github.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/blob/main/guide/developers.md) page.

AI-UI and it's closed-source precursors have been used in used a variety production contexts for years by thousands of end users:
* Home Automation UI
* Advanced analytics UI
* Embedded Webcam UI
* Internet dating Single Page Applications for mobile & desktop
