## Your first web-page

Here's an example of a very simple web page, with the content generated by AI-UI.

```html
<head>
  <script src="https://unpkg.com/@matatbread/ai-ui/dist/ai-ui.js"></script>
</head>

<body>
</body>
<script>
  /* Specify what base tags you reference in your UI */
  const { h2, div, button, span } = AIUI.tag(['h2', 'div', 'button', 'span']);

  /* Define a _new_ tag type, called `App`, based on the standard "<div>" tag, that is composed of an h2 and div elements. It will generate markup like:
  
  <div>
      <h2>Hello World</h2>
      <div>Dunno</div>
  </div>

  */

  const App = div.extended({
    constructed() {
      /* When constructed, this "div" tag should contains some other tags: */
      return [
        h2("Hello World"),
        div("Dunno")
      ]
    }
  });

  /* Add add it to the document so the user can see it! */
  document.body.appendChild(App());
</script>
```

So far, so what? Another way of declaring HTML? Not exactly ground-breaking.

The `AIUI.tag()` function returns functions that create a standard DOM node of the specified name. These are just normal DOM nodes, created via [document.createElement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/createElement), and therefore have all the features and behaviours of standard DOM nodes.

Like the `div(....)` method (and all methods returned by `AIUI.tag()`), the new `App(...)` method optionally accepts an object specifying its attributes as the first arguemnt, an optional list of children and returns a standard DOM node.

The general function signature of __any__ tag creation function is:
```typescript
TagFunctionName(attributes?: AttributesOfThisTag, ...children:(string | number | boolean | Node | Element | NodeList | HTMLCollection /* Or an array of any combination of the former */)[]): Element
```
> _Note: there some simplification here, the children can also be of some other types, as we'll see in [Dynamic content](./dynamic-content.md)_


Let's change the final line of the script to:

```javascript
  document.body.appendChild(App({
    style:{
      color: 'blue'
    }
  },
  'Your first web page'));
```

The final markup now looks like:
```html
<div style="color: blue;">
  Your first web page
  <h2>Hello World</h2>
  <div>Dunno</div>
</div>
```

[Example (right click and open in new tab)](https://raw.githack.com/MatAtBread/AI-UI/main/guide/examples/your-first-web-page.html)


Note that if you specify children when invoking the functions that creates your new tag, and you have a `constructed()` member, the children are appended before `constructed()` is invoked, allowing you to modify, move or delete the specified children.

Your new `App(...)` method is (alomst) indistinguishable from the "base" methods returned by `AIUI.tag()`. This is intentional - you can compose new tags using your new tag function (although "App" might be a misleading name) and create instances of your new tag in _exactly the same way as you would any of the base tags_. You can even call `App.extended(...)` to derive a new version of your tag that has specialised or altered behaviour. All tag methods support **composition** (by returning contained tags from `constructed()`) and **inheritance** (via the `TagFunction.extended(...)`). The details of how to do this are presented in the corresponding sections of this guide. Both the base tag functions and your extended tag functions just return normal a DOM node.

In the following sections, we'll add:

* [Dynamic content](./dynamic-content.md)

  Using async generators or Promises to generate dynamic content from remote APIs

* [Dynamic attributes](./dynamic-attributes.md)

  Using async generators to update attributes

* Composition: [Create new tags by combining existing ones](./index.md) _coming soon_

  Exploring `constructed()`, associating tags with `styles`

* Inheritance: [Derive variations of elements without having to copy/paste anything!](./index.md) _coming soon_

  The `extended()` method, getters, setters and private instance data.

* [Link elements dynamically](./when.md) _coming soon_

  `when(...)` - turn your elements into "spreadsheet" cells where the content and appearance of any element can depend on any other.

* [Explore type-safe defintions using `ids` & `prototype`](./index.md) _coming soon_

  Using `extended(...)` to give Typescript the help it needs to understand your tags

* [Augmenting the standard DOM API with AI-UI](./index.md) _coming soon_

  Expand the standard DOM API with Promises & generators
  
____

| < Prev | ^ |  Next > |
|:-------|:-:|--------:|
|        | [Index](./index.md) | [Dynamic content](./dynamic-content.md) |
